Add URL Template instructions (Edit Office Experiences Article) (#10798)
SharePoint/sp-dev-docs: docs/embedded/development/content-experiences/office-experience.md

Reviewer: "Versioning is automatically enabled on each Word, Excel, and PowerPoint file stored in your SharePoint Embedded Apps" is not true for CTs set versioningEnable to false.

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Versioning of Office documents are enabled via the isVersioningEnable container type configuration of your SharePoint Embedded application. This allows users to track changes, compare versions, and restore earlier versions when needed—whether to recover from mistakes, revert to a preferred version, or manage changes in collaborative scenarios."

Author: addressed

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Select Share and start typing the email addresses or contact names of people you want to share with. You can choose contacts from the list that appears."

Reviewer: Rephase this to "Create a sharing link"

Sharing link is the name for the feature. Not shareable link

Reviewer: I recommend rephasing this to "SharePoint Embedded app users can share their files by sending a link." How they send the link is irrelevant.

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Users can collaborate on Office files by sharing them with trusted peers. Shared files can be edited together in real time, with changes visible as they happen. @mentions in comments help bring others into the conversation for feedback."

Reviewer: We should standardize how we call the files here - we have in this article "Office documents from SharePoint Embedded", "SharePoint Embedded Application File", "SharePoint Embedded Application docs" to name a few. 

"This might include people outside of your organization." contradicts an earlier line "Mentions exclude guests and users from other tenants in a multitenant setting."

Reviewer: recommend rephasing "use the link" to "redeem the link"

Reviewer: Does "Office clients" here mean Office Webapp or Desktop or both? Best clarify what "Office clients" mean up front.

Reviewer: "Application" - I dont think application needs to be capitalized throughout the doc. Can we also standardize application vs applications vs app vs apps vs "Application apps", where applicable, please?

Reviewer: I recommend rephasing this to "Breadcrumbs in SharePoint Embedded apps are derived from the corresponding container type configuration. The following diagram shows how these properties map to breadcrumb display in Office clients."

Reviewer: "Breadcrumb properties are used by Office clients to display breadcrumb-style elements within Office client UI that aid your users in associating Office files with your Application" - I am unsure what "aid your users in associating Office files" means.

Reviewer: I think line 51 and 52 are unnecessary. It is standard Office experience as is.

Reviewer: Rephase this to "Users can select who to share their Office documents in SPE containers with:"

Reviewer: Date needs to be updated

---
title: Office file experiences for SharePoint Embedded
description: Learn how Office file experiences work with SharePoint Embedded, including versioning, collaboration, co-authoring, breadcrumb navigation, and Microsoft 365 search integration.
ms.date: 04/27/2026
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Office file experiences for SharePoint Embedded

SharePoint Embedded supports the same Office file experiences available in Microsoft 365, including opening and editing documents, co-authoring, versioning, sharing, and breadcrumb navigation. This article describes how these experiences work in SharePoint Embedded applications.

## Opening Office documents from SharePoint Embedded

> Office documents in SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened and edited in Office for the web or in desktop Office applications for full desktop functionality. AutoSave is enabled by default and automatically saves changes to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files.

Reviewer: "in desktop Office applications for full desktop functionality" is it actually full desktop functionality? Can I save-as something else in the container?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, there's no rename, move, delete, etc. for SPE in Office applications, so maybe avoid saying full functionality.
```suggestion
Office documents in SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened and edited in Office for the web or in desktop Office applications. AutoSave is enabled by default and automatically saves changes to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files.
```

> Office documents in SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened and edited in Office for the web or in desktop Office applications for full desktop functionality. AutoSave is enabled by default and automatically saves changes to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files.

Reviewer: "AutoSave is enabled by default and automatically saves changes to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files." can just be "AutoSave is enabled by default." The rest is redundant.

> Documents stored in an archived container can’t be viewed or accessed. Your application must handle the archived state of the container by displaying an appropriate error message and guiding users through the steps to regain access, such as reactivating the container.

Reviewer: "Your application must handle the archived state of the container by displaying an appropriate error message and guiding users through the steps to regain access, such as reactivating the container." Remove "such as" - just say you app must handle the state by showing users how to reactivate the container to regain access. Such as suggests there is more than one option. There is only one option.

Reviewer 2: +1. And "reactivating the container" is not something that's user-facing. That's a technical concept and an app may wrap that around a user scenario.

## View or restore a previous version of an Office document from SharePoint Embedded

> Office document versioning is controlled by the `isVersioningEnabled` setting in your container type configuration. Users can track changes, compare versions, and restore earlier versions when needed—whether to recover from mistakes, revert to a preferred version, or manage changes in collaborative scenarios.

Reviewer: "Users can track changes, compare versions, and restore earlier versions when needed—whether to recover from mistakes, revert to a preferred version, or manage changes in collaborative scenarios." i dont think this is needed. You are basically describing what WXP apps can do with versioning, which is not the scope of the doc.

> Office document versioning is controlled by the `isVersioningEnabled` setting in your container type configuration. Users can track changes, compare versions, and restore earlier versions when needed—whether to recover from mistakes, revert to a preferred version, or manage changes in collaborative scenarios.

Reviewer 2: Fix setting name and also link to the resource. 

```suggestion
Office document versioning is controlled by the `isItemVersioningEnabled` setting in your [container type configuration](/graph/api/resources/filestoragecontainertypesettings). Users can track changes, compare versions, and restore earlier versions when needed—whether to recover from mistakes, revert to a preferred version, or manage changes in collaborative scenarios.
```

## Collaborating on Office documents from SharePoint Embedded

Users can share files with specific individuals or external users via links, email invitations, or @mentions in comments. Office also supports real-time collaboration through co-authoring.

> [!NOTE]
> Users you @mention must [have a Microsoft 365 license assigned to them](../auth.md#mention-users-in-office-documents).
>
> The @mentions feature is restricted to people inside the consuming tenant's organization and excludes guests and users from other tenants in a multitenant setting.

### Share your documents

#### Send an email invitation

Share your SharePoint Embedded documents by sending an email invitation to specific people:

- Select **Share** and start typing the email addresses or contact names of people you want to share with. You can choose contacts from the list that appears.

#### Create a shareable link

> Creating a shareable link makes it simple to share your SharePoint Embedded document in an email, document, or instant message.

Reviewer: "sharing link". Not "shareable link". Drop "in an email, document, or instant message." How they share is irrelevant. One may as well write down the link on paper.

- Select **Share**, select **Copy Link**, and paste the link wherever you want.
- Change any link permissions if needed.

### Co-author

Users can collaborate on Office files by sharing them with colleagues. Multiple users can edit shared files simultaneously, with changes visible as they happen. @mentions in comments help bring others into the conversation for feedback.

- See who else is in the document and where they're working.
- See a presence indicator where someone is making changes, and view those changes in real time.
- See changes made by others and review what happened while you were away.

### Levels of sharing access

> The following table describes the sharing options available for SharePoint Embedded application files:

Reviewer: "SharePoint Embedded application files" to "SharePoint Embedded content" "Application file" by definition means something different - An application file is a digital package containing all the resources and code needed to run a software program on a specific operating system.

| Restrict your SharePoint Embedded application files to specific people | When you need to prevent recipients from forwarding a shared link, use the **Specific People** permission scope. **Specific People** grants access only to the recipients you designate explicitly. If a recipient forwards the sharing invitation, only people who already have access to the item can use the link. |
| Reshare the link with specific people | Use **People with existing access** to share a link with someone who already has access to the document or folder. This option doesn't change any existing permissions. |

## Breadcrumb properties on Office documents from SharePoint Embedded

Breadcrumb properties enable Office clients to display navigation elements that help users associate Office files with your application.

> [!NOTE]
> We recommend specifying **Current Channel** to take advantage of breadcrumb patterns and future enhancements to Office apps. Learn more about [specifying update channels for Office apps](/deployoffice/updates/overview-update-channels).

> Container properties configured for your app define the breadcrumb patterns. The following diagram shows how container properties map to the breadcrumb display in Office clients:

Reviewer 3: This should explicitly state that urlTemplate controls where breadcrumb links point in Office clients so that developers understand they are configuring one property for multiple experiences.

![Screenshot of breadcrumb pattern in SharePoint Embedded applications](../../images/office2.png)

Here are a few examples of SharePoint Embedded application breadcrumb navigation in Office clients.

![Screenshot of breadcrumb options in SharePoint Embedded applications.](../../images/office1.png)

## Opening files from Microsoft 365 search

> When users search for content on Microsoft 365 (for example, on Office.com), search results include files stored in SharePoint Embedded containers. Selecting a search result opens the file in an appropriate viewer. For file types without a built-in Microsoft viewer, the destination depends on the container type's [URL template](/graph/api/resources/filestoragecontainertypesettings#properties).

Reviewer: "When users search for content on Microsoft 365 (for example, on Office.com), search results include files stored in SharePoint Embedded containers. " this is again not true and depends on the isDiscoverabilitEnabled flag of the CT.

Author: addressed in line 84

Reviewer: Line 84 does not address the statement is untrue. Search results include SPE content is dependent on the flag. "when users do X, Y is included" vs "when users do X, Y is included if Z is defined" are two different things.

You can control whether files appear in Microsoft 365 search results using the [`isDiscoverabilityEnabled`](/graph/api/resources/filestoragecontainertypesettings#properties) container type configuration.

The `urlTemplate` property specifies the URL pattern Microsoft 365 uses when users open files from search results. If no URL template is configured, Microsoft 365 directs file types with no default viewer to a generic Microsoft help page instead of your application.

### How file types are handled

The destination URL for a file in search results depends on the file type and whether `urlTemplate` is set:

| File type | `urlTemplate` set? | Behavior when selected from search |
|---|---|---|

> | Word, Excel, PowerPoint | Either | Opens in Office for the web |

Author: What are the files types we need to document here? @DanWinter  

For example, what is everything we can open in Excel (.csv, xlsx... etc)

Reviewer 3: WAC technically also supports Visio (.vsdx) OneNote (.one) etc. As the list of extensions is huge, maybe we should say "Files with a supported Microsoft 365 web viewer (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, OneNote, and others)". Alternatively, frame the distinction as "files that have a Microsoft 365 web viewer" and have an ", etc" after PowerPoint.

| PDF | Either | Opens in the SharePoint Embedded PDF Previewer |
| All other types | Yes | Redirected to your application via `urlTemplate` |
| All other types | No | Redirected to a [Microsoft help page](https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation) |

### Configuring `urlTemplate`

Set the `urlTemplate` property on your container type using the [Update fileStorageContainerType](/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update) API. The value is a URL with placeholder tokens that Microsoft 365 resolves to actual item identifiers at the time a user selects a search result.

> #### URL template syntax

Reviewer 3: Add a requirements or constraints subsection under "Configuring urlTemplate" either above or below the URL template syntax:

- Must be a valid absolute URL.
- Must use https://. HTTP is not accepted.
- Cannot be a loopback address (localhost, 127.0.0.1, etc.).
- Note the silent discard behavior so developers can diagnose misconfigurations (set a value, read it back, get empty).

   If a URL fails these checks, urlTemplate is silently set to null — the URL is discarded without surfacing an error to the caller at read time.

```text
https://app.contoso.com/open?tenant={tenant-id}&drive={drive-id}&item={item-id}
```

> Tokens are enclosed in curly braces and replaced with values for the specific item the user selects. Any token that cannot be resolved is removed from the URL before the redirect occurs.

Reviewer 3: The RemoveUnpopulatedTokens method only removes tokens from this specific list: {list-id}, {folder-id}, {item-id}, {site-domain}, {itemname-guid}, {folderpath-guids}. Tokens not on that list — including {tenant-id} and {drive-id} — are not removed if unresolved; they remain as literal text in the URL.

We might want to replace the blanket statement with accurate per-token behavior (which we will have to update whenever we add new tokens), or note that by default tokens are automatically removed with the exception of {tenant-id} and {drive-id}.

#### Supported tokens

> | Token | Value your app receives |

Reviewer 3: Add the missing tokens to the "Supported tokens" table. For SharePoint Embedded ISVs {site-domain}, {list-id}, and {site-url} are the most actionable. {ownershipType}, {itemname-guid}, and {folderpath-guids} are more specialized and may warrant a separate "advanced tokens" note.

|---|---|

> | `{tenant-id}` | ID of the consuming tenant; used to make tenant-scoped Graph API calls |

Reviewer 3: Lets clarify this is a GUID

| `{drive-id}` | Drive ID of the container; use with the Graph APIs to reference the container |

> | `{folder-id}` | ID of the item's immediate parent folder; omitted entirely from the URL for root-level files |

Reviewer 3: Lets call this ItemId instead of ID. ID may lead readers to believe it is the item Guid which it is not.

> | `{item-id}` | ID of the driveItem |

Reviewer 3: Lets call this ItemId instead of ID. ID may lead readers to believe it is the item GUID which it is not.

> For more information on custom properties, see [Custom properties on fileStorageContainers](/graph/api/filestoragecontainer-post-customproperty).

Reviewer 3: This is referenced but not explained. We should have a short paragraph before this line that explains that custom container properties can be used as tokens in urlTemplate if they have isPatternToken set to true.

#### Example

If your container type has `urlTemplate` set to:

```text
https://app.contoso.com/open?t={tenant-id}&d={drive-id}&i={item-id}
```

Then when a user opens a `.txt` file from a search result, Microsoft 365 redirects them to a URL like:

```text
https://app.contoso.com/open?t=72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47&d=b%21abc123...&i=01ABC...
```

Your application receives the tenant ID, drive ID, and item ID as query parameters and can use them to retrieve and open the file via the Microsoft Graph API.

#### Setting `urlTemplate` via Graph API

Use the PATCH endpoint [Update fileStorageContainerType](/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update) to update `urlTemplate`:

```http
PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/storage/fileStorage/containerTypes/{containerTypeId}
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "settings": {
    "urlTemplate": "https://app.contoso.com/open?t={tenant-id}&d={drive-id}&i={item-id}"
  },
  "etag": "<etag-value>"
}
```

### Limitations

> #### Search index updates may be delayed

Reviewer: "Search index updates may be delayed" this is a sensitive line that I would recommend not to use. We should just say "Update to urlTemplate is not instantaneous"

Author: @copilot fix this

# Office file experiences for SharePoint Embedded

> Office file experiences for the SharePoint Embedded platform work similarly to the Microsoft 365 platform.

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Office files in SharePoint Embedded containers behave similarly to Office files stored in OneDrive and SharePoint sites."

## Opening Office documents from SharePoint Embedded

> Office documents from SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened for viewing and editing in Office web or in the Office application for a richer viewing and editing experience. The AutoSave feature saves files automatically as your users work and is enabled for each Word, Excel, and PowerPoint file stored in your SharePoint Embedded Application Apps.

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Office documents in SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened and edited in Office for the web or in desktop Office applications for a richer experience. AutoSave is enabled by default, automatically saving changes to Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files as users work."

> Office documents from SharePoint Embedded apps can be opened for viewing and editing in Office web or in the Office application for a richer viewing and editing experience. The AutoSave feature saves files automatically as your users work and is enabled for each Word, Excel, and PowerPoint file stored in your SharePoint Embedded Application Apps.

Reviewer: "Application" - I dont think application or the equivalent needs to be capitalized throughout the doc unless it is the first word in a sentence. Same for "Document" and "File".

"Application Apps" is redundant and should not be used. Please also standardize the usage of "application" vs "applications" vs "app" vs "apps", where applicable.

> Documents stored in an archived container can’t be viewed or accessed. Applications must handle the archived state of the container by displaying an appropriate error message and guiding end users on the next steps to regain access, such as reactivating the container.

Reviewer: We should not use the word "activate" in this context. Activate carries a specific meaning in SPE land. An archived container is already activated. 

I would recommend rephasing this to "Documents in archived containers can’t be accessed or viewed. Applications should handle this state by displaying an appropriate message and guiding users on how to unarchive the container before access attempts."

## Collaborating on Office documents from SharePoint Embedded

> It's simple for your users to collaborate on your SharePoint Embedded Application's Office documents – they can **Share documents** with specific peers or with people outside your organization by creating a shareable link to use wherever needed, sending an email invitation or @mention in comments to tag someone for feedback and, **Collaborate in real time** by co-authoring in Office with SharePoint Embedded Applications.

Reviewer: I would recommend rephasing this to "Users can share files with specific individuals or external users via links, email invitations, or @mentions in comments, and collaborate in real time through co-authoring in Office."

Reviewer: It is a public facing doc. Do not describe a process or interaction as easy, simple, hard or challenging. Just explain the steps 1, 2, 3 to achieve outcome X.

> [!NOTE]
> Mentions require target users to [have a Microsoft 365 license assigned to them](../auth.md#mention-users-in-office-documents).
>

> > Mentions are restricted to people inside the consuming tenant's organization. Mentions exclude guests and users from other tenants in a multitenant setting.

Reviewer: is it "Mentions" or "@mentions"?

![Screenshot of breadcrumb pattern in SharePoint Embedded Applications](../../images/office2.png)

Here are a few examples of SharePoint Embedded Application breadcrumb display within Office client experiences.

![Screenshot of breadcrumb options in SharePoint Embedded Applications.](../../images/office1.png)

> ## Controlling where users land when opening SPE files from Microsoft 365 search

Reviewer: "SPE" - this is the first time using the acronym. Standard convention is to introduce the acronym along with its full name in the beginning of the article, as "SharePoint Embedded (SPE)", and then use SPE in the article as needed.

> When users search for content on Microsoft 365 (for example, on Office.com or OneDrive), search results include files stored in SharePoint Embedded containers. Clicking a search result opens the file in an appropriate viewer. For file types without a built-in Microsoft viewer, the destination depends on whether your container type has a URL template configured.

Reviewer: I recommend rephasing this to "When users search across Microsoft 365 (such as on Office.com), results include files stored in SharePoint Embedded containers. Selecting a result opens the file in the appropriate viewer. For file types without a built-in Microsoft viewer, the destination depends on the container’s configured URL template."

You should also add a note that searchability across M365 is controlled by the container type configuration isDiscoverabilityDisabled.

> The `urlTemplate` property on your container type lets you specify a URL pattern in your application that Microsoft 365 uses as the destination when a user clicks on one of your files stored in your containers in search results. Without it, users clicking non-Office, non-PDF files in search results are directed to a generic Microsoft help page rather than your application.

Reviewer: I recommend rephasing this to "The urlTemplate property on a container type specifies the URL pattern used by Microsoft 365 when users open files from search results. If no URL template is configured, users clicking non-Office and non-PDF files are directed to a generic Microsoft help page rather than your application."

### How file types are handled

> The destination URL for a file in search results depends on the file type, regardless of whether `urlTemplate` is set:

Reviewer: "regardless of whether `urlTemplate` is set" is not entirely true, is it?

Reviewer: This should rephase as "Selecting SPE content from search results has different behaviors, dependent on the file type and the `urlTemplate` setting:"

> | File type | `urlTemplate` set? | Destination when clicked in search |

Reviewer: Rephase "Destination when clicked in search" to "Behavior"

|---|---|---|

> | Word, Excel, PowerPoint | Yes or No | Opens in Office Web Apps |

Reviewer: Rephase "Yes or No" to Either

> | Word, Excel, PowerPoint | Yes or No | Opens in Office Web Apps |

Reviewer: "Word, Excel, PowerPoint" - what do they mean exactly? Word files can be docx, docm, etc. Excel can be xlsx, xlsm, xlsb, xls - would csv (which can be commonly opened on excel) be supported via this?

> | PDF and other files supported by the embedded viewer | Yes or No | Opens in the embedded file viewer |

Reviewer: Rephase "Yes or No" to Either

What are "the other files supported by the embedded viewer"?  I think we should provide a list of supported file formats supported by the embedded viewer. It currently reads as "PDF and something else" and we are not telling you what that something else is.

Should it be "other files" or "other file types"?

> | All other types (.txt, custom extensions, etc.) | Yes | Redirected to your application via the resolved `urlTemplate` |

Reviewer: "All other types (.txt, custom extensions, etc.)" I would recommend rephase this to "Txt files and all other file types, including custom extensions"

| All other types (.txt, custom extensions, etc.) | No | Redirected to `https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation` |

### Configuring `urlTemplate`

> Set `urlTemplate` on your container type using the [Update fileStorageContainerType](/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update) API. The value is a URL with placeholder tokens that Microsoft 365 resolves to actual item identifiers at the time a user clicks a search result.

Reviewer: I recommend rephasing this to "Set the urlTemplate property on your container type using the [Update fileStorageContainerType](/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update) API. This value defines a URL pattern with placeholder tokens that Microsoft 365 resolves to the appropriate item identifiers when a user selects a file from search results."

#### URL template syntax

```
https://app.contoso.com/open?tenant={tenant-id}&drive={drive-id}&item={item-id}
```

> Tokens are enclosed in curly braces and replaced with values for the specific item the user clicked. Any token that cannot be resolved is removed from the URL before the redirect occurs.

Reviewer: Rephase "clicked" to "selected"

#### Supported tokens

| Token | Value your app receives |
|---|---|
| `{tenant-id}` | ID of the consuming tenant; use to make tenant-scoped Graph API calls |

> | `{drive-id}` | Drive ID of the container; use with the Graph Files API to reference the container |

Reviewer: I think "Graph Files API" is wrong. There is no Graph resource called Files.

> | `{folder-id}` | ID of the item's immediate parent folder; may be absent for root-level files |

Reviewer: "May be absent" rephase to "unrequired"

> | `{item-id}` | ID of the file; combine with `{drive-id}` and the Graph Files API to open or retrieve the file |

Reviewer: I think "Graph Files API" is wrong. There is no Graph resource called Files.

> You can also use container custom properties as tokens, as long as the custom property was created with `isPatternToken: true`. The token format is `{propertyName}` where `propertyName` is the key of the custom property.

Reviewer: "You can also use container custom properties as tokens, as long as the custom property was created with `isPatternToken: true`" rephase to "You can also use container custom properties as tokens, only if they were created with `isPatternToken: true`"

> For more information on custom property tokens, see [Custom properties on fileStorageContainers](/graph/api/filestoragecontainer-post-customproperty).

Reviewer: "For more information on custom property token" rephased to "For more information on custom properties".

"custom property tokens" is not a SPE supported entity.

#### Example

If your container type has `urlTemplate` set to:

```
https://app.contoso.com/open?t={tenant-id}&d={drive-id}&i={item-id}
```

> Then when a user clicks a `.txt` file in a search result, they are redirected to something like:

Reviewer: "Then when a user clicks a `.txt` file in a search result," rephase to "Then when a user opens a `.txt` file from search result,"

```
https://app.contoso.com/open?t=72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47&d=b%21abc123...&i=01ABC...
```

> Your application receives the tenant ID, drive ID, and item ID as query parameters and can use them to open the correct file using the Microsoft Graph Files API.

Reviewer: "Microsoft Graph Files API" - do we mean "Microsoft Graph driveItem APIs"?

> Your application receives the tenant ID, drive ID, and item ID as query parameters and can use them to open the correct file using the Microsoft Graph Files API.

Reviewer: "Your application receives the tenant ID, drive ID, and item ID as query parameters and can use them to open the correct file using the Microsoft Graph Files API." - I recommend rephasing this to "Your application receives a URL with the tenantId, driveId, and driveItemId populated and can call the Microsoft Graph driveItem APIs to open the file.

Reviewer: One note on consistency - "tenant-id" vs "tenant ID" and the like. Please stick with one convention throughout. I recommend either "tenant-id" or "tenantId" but not "tenant ID". No space when we are referring to the variables.

> #### Setting `urlTemplate` via the Graph API

Reviewer: "Setting `urlTemplate` via the Graph API" - remove "the"

Use a PATCH request to update the container type:

```http
PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/storage/fileStorage/containerTypes/{containerTypeId}
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "settings": {
    "urlTemplate": "https://app.contoso.com/open?t={tenant-id}&d={drive-id}&i={item-id}"
  },

>   "etag": "<etag-value>"

Reviewer: why do we need to include etag as part of the example?

Author: prevents conflicting updates to the CT: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http

}
```

> For the full reference, see [Update fileStorageContainerType](/graph/api/filestoragecontainertype-update).

Reviewer: "For the full reference" rephase to "For details on how to update fileStorageContainerType"

### Fallback behavior when `urlTemplate` is not set

> If `urlTemplate` is not configured on your container type, users who click on non-Office, non-PDF files in Microsoft 365 search results are redirected to `https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation`. This page explains that the file is stored in a third-party application and that the user should open it there directly.

Reviewer: i recommend rephasing this to "If the urlTemplate property isn’t configured, users who select non-Office or non-PDF files in Microsoft 365 search results are redirected to a generic help page that explains the file is stored in a third-party application and should be opened there."

> If `urlTemplate` is not configured on your container type, users who click on non-Office, non-PDF files in Microsoft 365 search results are redirected to `https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation`. This page explains that the file is stored in a third-party application and that the user should open it there directly.

Reviewer: "search results are redirected to `https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation`. This page explains that the file is stored in a third-party application and that the user should open it there directly." - is this true?

Currently "https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation" redirects to "https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/embedded/development/content-experiences/office-experience". I think a screenshot for https://aka.ms/spe-openfilelocation would be helpful here

> If your application stores only Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and PDF files, you may not need to set `urlTemplate` at all. For applications that store any other file types, setting `urlTemplate` is strongly recommended to avoid users encountering this help page from search.

Reviewer: "If your application stores only Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and PDF files, you may not need to set `urlTemplate` at all." - lets avoid using may or may not, It suggests the need of it depends on the circumstances, and we need to explain the circumstances (which we are not doing in this article) or imply the partners to trial and error (which is bad).

Reviewer: I actually dont think this line is needed at all. Wouldn't the table above suffice? Instead, if a section to talk about fallback is needed, we should just say 1) there is no fallback for WXP files, redirecting them to Office is the only option; 2) there is no fallback to PDF files, redirecting them to embedded viewer is the only option; and 3) non WXP and PDF files fallback to the help page if the urlTempalte is unset.

### Limitations

> #### Search index updates require a re-crawl

Reviewer: "Search index updates require a re-crawl" rephase to "Updates to the urlTemplate are not instantaneous"

Reviewer: if we must use the word recrawl, use" recrawl" instead of "re-crawl." That is the word used across other articles.

Author: @cindylay update the index

> The destination URL for each file is stored in the Microsoft 365 search index when the file is crawled. If you configure or update `urlTemplate` after files have already been indexed, existing search results continue to route to the previous destination until those files are re-crawled. Microsoft 365 performs incremental crawls automatically, but there may be a delay before all files reflect the updated URL.

Reviewer: "The destination URL for each file is stored in the Microsoft 365 search index when the file is crawled." - drop "when the file is crawled"

Reviewer: "If you configure or update `urlTemplate` after files have already been indexed, existing search results continue to route to the previous destination until those files are re-crawled. Microsoft 365 performs incremental crawls automatically, but there may be a delay before all files reflect the updated URL." rephase to "If you configure or update the urlTemplate after files have been indexed, search results will continue to use the previous destination until the index is updated. Microsoft 365 performs incremental index update automatically, but there may be a delay before updates are reflected."

> #### `urlTemplate` is scoped to the container type, not individual containers

Reviewer: you can drop "not individual containers"

> The template applies to all containers of that type across all consuming tenants. Use the `{tenant-id}` token to route users to the correct tenant context within your application.

Reviewer: "The template applies to all containers of that type across all consuming tenants" rephase to "The template applies to all container instances of the corresponding container type across all consuming tenants."

"Use the `{tenant-id}` token to route users to the correct tenant context within your application." drop the word "context".

#### Custom property tokens require `isPatternToken: true`

> Container custom properties are only eligible for use as URL tokens if they were created with `isPatternToken: true`. Properties without this flag cannot be used in the template.

Reviewer: "Container custom properties are only eligible for use as URL tokens if they were created with `isPatternToken: true`. " rephase to "Container custom properties can only be used as URL tokens if they were created with `isPatternToken: true`. "

Reviewer: I think we need to explain if there is a way to update an existing custom property and set isPatternToken to true,

Reviewer: Reading this article again, why is this subsection needed? Didnt we already talk about the token piece earlier in the article?

#### `{folder-id}` reflects the item's immediate parent

> For files at the root of the container, this token may not resolve and is removed from the final URL. Design your application to handle URLs where `{folder-id}` is absent.

Reviewer: "For files at the root of the container, this token may not resolve" - this is leaving room for misinterpretation as it also reads "the token may resolve" and we are suggesting folks to trial and error. If it indeed does not resolve, say so. If it resolves in some circumstances and does not in others, explain the circumstances.
